date: feb/14:

RAM is the primary storage, which is volatile.

Secondary memory is non-volatile, and it includes storage devices like hard drives and SSDs.

Static RAM (SRAM) is faster than Dynamic RAM (DRAM).

DRAM is made up of capacitors and is volatile.

Cortex M is a microprocessor that contains only the processor. If it contains 176KB of program memory, it's called a microcontroller.

The system bus is the median that connects peripherals to the processor. It has eight buses.

GPIO (General Purpose Input/Output) is a peripheral that allows communication with the outside environment.

The CPU knows only addition and other operations are performed by the architecture.

The CPU communicates with the ALU (Arithmetic Logic Unit) via the AHB (Advanced High-performance Bus) at high speed.

The clock speed is 180 MHz
GPIO pins are generally used for reading digital signals, generating interrupts, and triggering external components.

A GPIO pin's value consists of one of two voltage settings.

Each GPIO pin can be programmed individually.

A group of GPIO pins joined together is called a port.

The instruction bus is used for sending commands to the peripherals, while the data bus is used for transferring data.

Multiplexing is used to share the system bus with multiple peripherals, allowing them to communicate with the processor.

A UART (Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmitter) peripheral can be implemented using GPIO pins to provide serial communication.

Each GPIO pin can be configured as either an input or output buffer, depending on the state of the enable line (I for input, O for output).

In the example you provided, GPIO has 16 pins, and pin 0 is configured as an output buffer, while pins 1 and 2 are input buffer

In output mode, the GPIO pin can be configured to have a pull-up or pull-down register to stabilize the input.

The GPIO pin can be configured in open-drain state (PAI), which means that when the transistor is ON, the pin is pulled to ground.

To configure the GPIO pin direction mode, you can use the MODER register. For example, 1 in the 11th bit of the MODER register corresponds to general-purpose output mode.

To access the GPIO A port, you need to activate the clock. This can be done by setting the corresponding bit in the RCC (Reset and Clock Control) AHB1ENR (Advanced High-performance Bus) register.

You can configure the GPIO pin to produce 2 (0 or 1), 4 (0, 1, 0, 1), or up to 1024 (2^10) different values using the corresponding bits in the MODER register.

The function mode of the GPIO pin can be configured using the first 6 bits of the MODER register (a16).

You can enable or disable the pull-up or pull-down register by setting or clearing the corresponding bits in the MODER register.


15/02/2024

PIO have 7 memory space and address, that memory space is called Registers.

REGISTERS

    MODER
    OTYPER
    OSPEEDER
    PUPDR
    IDR
    ODR
    BSRR
    LCKR
    AFRL
    AFRH

GPIOA base address will be -> 0x40020000 When we know the base address of GPIOA and we know the offset 0x00 then we can know the place.

MODER register base address + offset : 0x00

OTYPER register base address + offset : 0x04

pheripheral base 40020000 offset 20000 base address 40000000 pheripheral base (pheriph base + AHBIperiph_offset) (GPIO_OFFSET = 0x0000UL)

GPIO_BASE (AHB1PERIPH_BASE + GPIO_OFFSET) When we use the (volatile unsigned int )then we call as address integer poiter typecaste (RCC_BASE + AHB1EN_R_OFFSET)will be changes as address. ((volatile unsigned int *)(RCC_BASE + AHB1EN_R_OFFSET))
